---
title: MySQL如何实现可重复读
---

### MySQL如何实现可重复读
1. 每一次一般的select都是快照读，不加锁，其它事务可以对该行进行update，由于每一行记录都有一个7-byte DB_ROLL_PTR field called the roll pointer，指向rollback segment中代表该修改事务的update undo log，利用这个log就能在下一次读的时候还原快照值，这样就实现了可重复读。
当没有事务需要快照读的时候才能把update undo log删除，所以就算一个事务只执行一致性读，也要及时提交事务，否则rollback segment中的update undo log会太多。

2. Internally, InnoDB adds three fields to each row stored in the database. A 6-byte DB_TRX_ID field indicates the transaction identifier for the last transaction that inserted or updated the row. Also, a deletion is treated internally as an update where a special bit in the row is set to mark it as deleted.（delete也当做update） Each row also contains a 7-byte DB_ROLL_PTR field called the roll pointer. The roll pointer points to an undo log record written to the rollback segment. If the row was updated, the undo log record contains the information necessary to rebuild the content of the row before it was updated. A 6-byte DB_ROW_ID field contains a row ID that increases monotonically as new rows are inserted. If InnoDB generates a clustered index automatically, the index contains row ID values. Otherwise, the DB_ROW_IDcolumn does not appear in any index.

3. Undo logs in the rollback segment are divided into insert and update undo logs. Insert undo logs are needed only in transaction rollback and can be discarded as soon as the transaction commits. Update undo logs are used also in consistent reads, but they can be discarded only after there is no transaction present for which InnoDB has assigned a snapshot that in a consistent read could need the information in the update undo log to build an earlier version of a database row.

4. In the InnoDB multi-versioning scheme, a row is not physically removed from the database immediately when you delete it with an SQL statement. InnoDB only physically removes the corresponding row and its index records when it discards the update undo log record written for the deletion. This removal operation is called a purge, and it is quite fast, usually taking the same order of time as the SQL statement that did the deletion.
